---
tags:
  - DS101
status: Idea
date: 2023-53-08
published: false
youtube: https://www.youtube.com/
cover: a
---
## Scripts
- [0] Start from Videoscribe
Web scraping is the process of extracting data from websites. It's an incredibly powerful tool that can save you time and effort when you need to collect data from multiple sources.

- [1] Cut to screen showing code
With web scraping, you can automate the process of collecting data from websites. This means you don't have to manually visit each website and copy the data you need. Instead, you can write code that does this for you.

- [2] Show the SCV file of collected data
Imagine you want to collect data on all the products listed on an e-commerce website. With web scraping, you can extract all the necessary data, such as product names, descriptions, prices, and ratings, and store it in a structured format.

- [0] Cut to Videoscribe showing python and different tools 
To get started with web scraping, you'll need to know a programming language like Python. Python has many libraries that make web scraping easy, including BeautifulSoup, Scrapy, and Selenium. Scrape strome, Apify.

- [1] Cut to VSCode showin python code 
Lets use python and BeautifulSoup to scrape Dev.to...
- The first line imports the necessary modules for web scraping.
- This line creates a variable url which stores the website address to be scraped.
- This line creates an HTTP request to the website url with a User-Agent string specified to prevent the website from blocking the request. The Request() function from the urllib.request module is used to construct the request object.
- This line sends the HTTP request and retrieves the HTML content of the webpage using the urlopen() function from the urllib.request module.
- This line creates a BeautifulSoup object by parsing the retrieved HTML content using the 'html.parser' parser.
- This line finds all the div elements with the class crayons-story__indention and stores them in a list called cards . These div elements contain the information we want to scrape, which includes the article titles and tags.
- This loop iterates over each div element in the cards list and finds the article title and tags using the find() function of the BeautifulSoup object. The join() and split() functions are used to clean up the extracted information and store them in the titles and tags lists.
- Finally, this code creates a pandas DataFrame object from the titles and tags lists, and writes the contents to a CSV file named dev.csv using the to_csv() function. The index parameter is set to False to prevent the index from being included in the CSV file, and the encoding parameter is set to utf-8 to ensure proper encoding of non-ASCII characters.

- [3] Find clips that can be used for the section
While web scraping can be a powerful tool, it's important to use it ethically. Make sure you have permission to scrape the website you're targeting, and always respect the website's terms of service and privacy policy.

## Resources


## Description


## SEO


## Thumbnail

