---
summary: 15 different wasy to improve pandas code.
tags: [post, datascience, pandas]
creation_date: Saturday, 15th December 2022, 20:36:04
alias: [Better Pandas]
status:: Writing
Progress: 80
Target: 100
---



1.  Use vectorized operations instead of looping through data manually. Pandas offers a wide range of functions that can perform operations on entire columns or dataframes, which can be much faster and more efficient than manually looping through the data.
    
2.  Avoid using the `apply()` function wherever possible. While `apply()` can be useful in certain situations, it can be much slower than other methods of performing operations on data. Consider using functions like `groupby()`, `pivot_table()`, or `crosstab()` instead.
    
3.  Make use of the `inplace` parameter when modifying data. When modifying data in place, you can save memory by avoiding the creation of a new dataframe.
    
4.  Use the `.loc[]` and `.iloc[]` indexers for efficient data selection. These indexers allow you to select data based on labels or integer-based location, respectively, and can be much faster than using boolean indexing.
    
5.  Use `pd.read_csv()` and `pd.to_csv()` functions with the `chunksize` parameter when working with large data sets. This can help you to process and analyze data in chunks, rather than reading in the entire data set at once.
    
6.  Avoid using the `.ix[]` indexer, as it has been deprecated in recent versions of pandas. Instead, use the `.loc[]` or `.iloc[]` indexers.
    
7.  Make use of the `pd.concat()` function for efficient data concatenation. This function allows you to combine multiple dataframes into a single dataframe, and can be much faster than using looping or `apply()`.
    
8.  Use the `pd.merge()` function for efficient data merging. This function allows you to merge two dataframes based on common columns or keys, and can be much faster than using looping or `apply()`.
    
9.  Use the `pd.cut()` and `pd.qcut()` functions for efficient data binning. These functions allow you to divide data into bins based on specific criteria, which can be useful for data visualization or analysis.
    
10.  Make use of the `pd.pivot_table()` function for efficient data aggregation. This function allows you to easily summarize data and calculate statistics such as mean, median, and sum.
    
11.  Use the `pd.melt()` function for reshaping data. This function allows you to transform data from a wide format to a long format, which can be useful for data visualization or analysis.
    
12.  Use the `pd.crosstab()` function for creating contingency tables. This function allows you to easily compare the relationship between two categorical variables.
    
13.  Use the `pd.categorical()` function for converting data to a categorical data type. This can help to reduce memory usage and improve performance when working with large data sets.
    
14.  Use the `pd.to_datetime()` function for efficient datetime parsing and conversion. This function allows you to easily convert strings or integers to datetime objects, and can be much faster than using `apply()` or looping.
    
15.  Make use of the `pd.date_range()` function for generating sequences of datetime objects. This function allows you to easily create a range of datetime objects with a specified frequency, which can be useful for time series analysis or data visualization.