---
tags:
  - 2mvideo
status: Idea
---
## Article

Streamlit is an open-source library for building data apps in Python. It allows developers to easily create web apps that allow users to interact with data, without having to worry about the underlying web development.

One of the key features of Streamlit is that it is built on top of the widely-used web framework, Flask. This allows developers to use their existing Flask knowledge and makes it easy to integrate Streamlit into an existing web app. Additionally, Streamlit is designed to be simple to use, with a "pythonic" API that is easy to understand.

One of the main use cases for Streamlit is building data exploration and visualization apps. The library provides a number of built-in widgets for displaying data, such as tables and charts, as well as tools for building custom widgets. This makes it easy for data scientists and analysts to build apps that allow others to interact with and explore their data.

Another common use case is for building Machine learning model training and deployment. Streamlit allows easy use of widgets like sliders, dropdown, checkboxes etc to allow the users to interact with the model, giving the ability to tweak parameters on the fly.

In addition to its core features, Streamlit also provides a number of plugins and add-ons that allow users to extend the functionality of their apps. This includes support for maps, forms, and even hosting the apps on the cloud with just one command, making the deployment process extremely easy.

Overall, Streamlit is a powerful library that makes it easy for Python developers to create interactive web apps without having to know web development. Its simplicity and flexibility make it a great choice for building data exploration and visualization apps, as well as machine learning model training and deployment.

## Youtube
Start by installing streamlit with `pip install streamlit`.
